# String Query

## Video URL: https://youtu.be/t2YVu9dWgyA

## About

String Query helps newbie guitarists search a curated selection of songs. Adam and Tabs are both guitarists (advanced and beginner respectively) and found available resources used to search songs minimal. 

String Query allows filtering of a list of songs by chords, genres, and will generate a list of songs based on those input criteria. The songs are stored in a JSON file.

Users can export their chords and genres into a CSV (the button will automatically download the options), and re-import it at whim. String Query should also retain all form options in local storage on reload unless the user clears the cache

The search bar will search through the title and artists of a current list of songs.

Each song component contains:
- Embed to the UberChord API. A button hides and shows the component.
- Embed to the Spotify song for a preview.
- Link to YouTube search results for guitar tutorials to that specific song
- Link to Ultimate Guitar tabs for that specific song, although the user may need an account to access them

## File description

Many of the files are generated by Svelte and Sveltekit. Our files are as below:
- lib/bg.jpg: background image
- lib/chords.js: A list of the chords
- lib/songs.json: A list of the songs and details
- lib/songs-test.json: A limited number of the songs for testing; this avoids too many API calls
- lib/UberChords.svelte: Component; calls the UberChords API to display chord diagrams
- lib/stores/searchResults.js: Creates the store, and handles the search term filtering 
- lib/SearchResults.svelte: Component; calls Song.svelte and displays list of songs based on user selections
- lib/Song.svelte: programmatic links and Spotify previews for songs
- lib/static/favicon.png: favicon image
- routes/+page.svelte: Main index page and entry point; SearchResults.svelte is loaded into here. Has the main UI elements for the chord and genre options. Handles local storage of user options using stores; form options remain in cache until manually cleared by user 
- routes/+layout.js: Needed for static website generation
- app.css: Custom global css


## Design decisions

- Button for the UberChord API: The API couldn't handle too many requests as once and would only work one by one, so it was relocated to its own component
- Songs are in their own components for ease of generation
- Displaying no songs on first load - there would be many unnecessary API calls
- UX and UI design decisions were made aplenty and restricted by the size and appearance of the embeds. We would have preferred a song component to appear much shorter.

## Developing

After `npm install`, start a development server with `npm run dev`

## Building

To create a production version run `npm run build`.

The build can be previews with `npm run preview`.


## Credits

### Logos

YouTube: https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:YouTube_social_white_square_%282017%29.svg
Ultimate guitar: https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Ultimate_Guitar_logo.svg
